WinForms breaking changes for .NET 9 Preview 1 (#39188)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/windows-forms/9.0/datagridviewheadercell-nre.md

---
title: "Breaking change: No exception if DataGridView is null"
description: Learn about the breaking change in .NET 9 for Windows Forms where DataGridViewHeaderCell methods no longer throw an exception if the DataGridView property is null.
ms.date: 01/16/2024
---
# No exception if DataGridView is null

> Previously, a <xref:System.NullReferenceException> was thrown in <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseDownUnsharesRow(System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCellMouseEventArgs)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseEnterUnsharesRow(System.Int32)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseLeaveUnsharesRow(System.Int32)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseUpUnsharesRow(System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCellMouseEventArgs)?displayProperty=nameWithType> if the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewElement.DataGridView> property was null. That behavior was unexpected and incorrect. We've updated these methods to simply return `false` if `DataGridView` is `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, a <xref:System.NullReferenceException> was thrown in <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseDownUnsharesRow(System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCellMouseEventArgs)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseEnterUnsharesRow(System.Int32)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseLeaveUnsharesRow(System.Int32)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, and <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewHeaderCell.MouseUpUnsharesRow(System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewCellMouseEventArgs)?displayProperty=nameWithType> if the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridViewElement.DataGridView> property was null. That behavior was unexpected and incorrect. These methods have been updated to simply return `false` if `DataGridView` is `null`.
```
